Reference for stage-3 import-attributes (#33856)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/statements/import/with/index.md

```

Instead, you must provide an attribute to tell the runtime that this file must contain JSON. To validate the module's type (via MIME type), you use the attribute key called `type`. To validate that the module is a JSON module, the value is `"json"`.

> [!NOTE]
> The actual `type` attribute value does not correspond directly to the MIME type. It's separately specified by the [HTML specification](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/webappapis.html#module-type-allowed).

Therefore, the code above should be re-written as:

```js
import data from "https://example.com/data.json" with { type: "json" };
```

The `type` attribute changes how the module is fetched (the browser sends the request with `{{HTTPHeader("Accept")}}: application/json` header), but does _not_ change how the module is parsed or evaluated. The runtime already knows to parse the module as JSON given the response MIME type. It only uses the attribute to do _after-the-fact_ checking that the `data.json` module is, in fact, a JSON module. For example, if the response header changes to `Content-Type: text/javascript` instead, the program will fail with a similar error as above.

> The specification explicitly calls out `type: "json"` to be supported — if a module is asserted to be `type: "json"` and the runtime does not fail this import, then it must be parsed as JSON. However, there's no behavior requirement otherwise: for imports without `type: "json"` attribute, the runtime may still parse it as JSON if security is not an issue in this environment. Browsers, on the other hand, implicitly assume that the module is JavaScript, and fail if the module is not JavaScript (for example, JSON). This ensures that module types are always strictly validated and prevents any security risks. In reality, non-browser runtimes such as Node and Deno align with browser semantics and enforce `type` for JSON modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The specification explicitly calls out `type: "json"` to be supported — if a module is asserted to be `type: "json"` and the runtime does not fail this import, then it must be parsed as JSON. However, there's no behavior requirement otherwise: for imports without a `type: "json"` attribute, the runtime may still parse it as JSON if security is not an issue in this environment. Browsers, on the other hand, implicitly assume that the module is JavaScript, and fail if the module is not JavaScript (for example, JSON). This ensures that module types are always strictly validated and prevents any security risks. In reality, non-browser runtimes such as Node and Deno align with browser semantics and enforce `type` for JSON modules.
```

---
title: Import attributes
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/import/with
page-type: javascript-language-feature
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: javascript.statements.import.import_attributes
---

{{jsSidebar("Statements")}}

> > **Note:** A previous version of this proposal used the `assert` keyword instead of `with`. The assertion feature is now non-standard. Check the [browser compatibility table](#browser_compatibility) for details.

Author: V8 may have successfully got rid of this already but we would still keep it for at least 2 years especially when the new feature isn't even documented.

import { names } from "module-name" with { key: "data", key2: "data2", /* …, */ keyN: "dataN" };

export { names } from "module-name" with {};
export { names } from "module-name" with { key: "data" };
export { names } from "module-name" with { key: "data", key2: "data2" };
export { names } from "module-name" with { key: "data", key2: "data2", /* …, */ keyN: "dataN" };
```

### Parameters

- `keyN`
  - : An attribute key. Can be an identifier or a string literal. All keys must be unique and must be known to the host.
- `"dataN"`
  - : An attribute value. Must be a string literal.

## Description

Import attributes tell the host how a particular module should be loaded.

The primary use case is to load non-JS modules, such as JSON modules and CSS modules. Consider the following statement:

```js
import data from "https://example.com/data.json";
```

On the web, each import statement results in a HTTP request. The response is then prepared into a JavaScript value and made available to the program by the host (i.e. the browser). For example, the response may look like this:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
...
{"name":"John"}
```

> Modules are identified and parsed only according to their served [MIME type](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/MIME_types) — the file extension in the URL cannot be used to identify a file's type. In this case, the MIME type is `application/json`, which tells the host browser that the file is JSON and must be parsed as JSON. If, for some reason (e.g. the server is hijacked or bogus), the MIME type in the server response is set to `text/javascript` (for JavaScript source), then the file would be parsed and executed as code. If the "JSON" file actually contains malicious code, the `import` declaration would unintentionally execute external code, posing a serious security threat.

Reviewer 2: Good explanation!

Import attributes fix this problem by allowing the author to explicitly specify how a module should be validated. For example, the import statement above, which lacks an attribute, would actually fail:

```plain
Failed to load module script: Expected a JavaScript module script but the server responded with a MIME type of "application/json". Strict MIME type checking is enforced for module scripts per HTML spec.
```

Instead, you must provide an attribute to tell the host that this file must contain JSON. To validate the module's type (via MIME type), you use the attribute key called `type`. To validate that the module is a JSON module, the value is `"json"`.

> > **Note:** The actual attribute value does not correspond directly to the MIME type. It's separately specified by the [HTML specification](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/webappapis.html#module-type-allowed).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The actual `type` attribute value does not correspond directly to the MIME type. It's separately specified by the [HTML specification](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/webappapis.html#module-type-allowed).
```

Therefore, the code above should be re-written as:

```js
import data from "https://example.com/data.json" with { type: "json" };
```

> This particular attribute does _not_ change how the module is interpreted. The host already knows to parse the module as JSON given the MIME type. It only uses the attribute to do _after-the-fact_ checking that the `data.json` module is, in fact, a JSON module. For example, if the response header changes to `Content-Type: text/javascript` instead, the program will fail:

Reviewer 2: This is nuance, but the attribute does change something: the browser will pass a different `Accept` header in the request to tell the server it's expecting JSON.

Author: It changes the fetching process but not the parsing/evaluation process, right? I'm trying to say that you cannot use `type: "json"` on a JS file and expect the JS to be magically parsed as JSON (which might work). But yes I will add this.

---
title: Import attributes
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/import/with
page-type: javascript-language-feature
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: javascript.statements.import.import_attributes
---

{{jsSidebar("Statements")}}

> [!NOTE]
> A previous version of this proposal used the `assert` keyword instead of `with`. The assertion feature is now non-standard. Check the [browser compatibility table](#browser_compatibility) for details.

The **import attributes** feature instructs the host about how a module should be loaded, including the behavior of module resolution, fetching, parsing, and evaluation. It's supported in [`import`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/import) declarations, [`export...from`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/export#re-exporting_aggregating) declarations, and dynamic [`import()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/import).

## Syntax

> Attributes can be attached to any kind of `import`/`export from` statement, including default import, namespace import, etc. It follows the module specifier string and starts with the `with` keyword.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Attributes can be attached to any kind of `import`/`export from` statement, including default import, namespace import, etc. They follow the module specifier string and are prefixed by the `with` keyword.
```

"they" and not "it" because it refers to "attributes". Also, attributes are they key-value pairs so I would say that `with` is more of a prefix that comes _before_ the attributes, rather than their beginning.

```js-nolint
import { names } from "module-name" with {};
import { names } from "module-name" with { key: "data" };
import { names } from "module-name" with { key: "data", key2: "data2" };
import { names } from "module-name" with { key: "data", key2: "data2", /* …, */ keyN: "dataN" };

export { names } from "module-name" with {};
export { names } from "module-name" with { key: "data" };
export { names } from "module-name" with { key: "data", key2: "data2" };
export { names } from "module-name" with { key: "data", key2: "data2", /* …, */ keyN: "dataN" };
```

### Parameters

- `keyN`

>   - : An attribute key. Can be an identifier or a string literal. All keys must be unique and must be known to the host.

Reviewer 2: Is "host" a known MDN term? I always assumed it was spec-specic jargon and people think about it as "runtimes"

Author: We use it sometimes, but yes "runtime" sounds better.

```suggestion
  - : An attribute key. Can be an identifier or a string literal. All keys must be unique and must be known to the runtime.
```

```

Instead, you must provide an attribute to tell the host that this file must contain JSON. To validate the module's type (via MIME type), you use the attribute key called `type`. To validate that the module is a JSON module, the value is `"json"`.

> [!NOTE]
> The actual `type` attribute value does not correspond directly to the MIME type. It's separately specified by the [HTML specification](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/webappapis.html#module-type-allowed).

Therefore, the code above should be re-written as:

```js
import data from "https://example.com/data.json" with { type: "json" };
```

This particular attribute changes how the module is fetched (the browser sends the request with `{{HTTPHeader("Accept")}}: application/json` header), but does _not_ change how the module is parsed or evaluated. The host already knows to parse the module as JSON given the response MIME type. It only uses the attribute to do _after-the-fact_ checking that the `data.json` module is, in fact, a JSON module. For example, if the response header changes to `Content-Type: text/javascript` instead, the program will fail:

> ```plain

Reviewer 2: This example is already shown above

Failed to load module script: Expected a JSON module script but the server responded with a MIME type of "text/javascript". Strict MIME type checking is enforced for module scripts per HTML spec.
```

> If the attribute is absent, browsers implicitly assume that the module is JavaScript, and fail if the module is not JavaScript (for example, JSON). This ensures that module types are always strictly validated and prevents any security risks. Other non-browser hosts are free to implement their own behavior. The specification explicitly calls out `type: "json"` to be supported — if a module is asserted to be `type: "json"` and the host does not fail this import, then it must be parsed as JSON. However, there's no behavior requirement otherwise: for imports without `type: "json"` attribute, the host may still parse it as JSON if security is not an issue in this environment.

Reviewer 2: In practice all common hosts require the attributes (Node.js, Deno, Cloudflare Workers). Maybe it should be mentioned?

Author: ```suggestion
If the attribute is absent, browsers implicitly assume that the module is JavaScript, and fail if the module is not JavaScript (for example, JSON). This ensures that module types are always strictly validated and prevents any security risks. Other non-browser hosts are free to implement their own behavior. The specification explicitly calls out `type: "json"` to be supported — if a module is asserted to be `type: "json"` and the host does not fail this import, then it must be parsed as JSON. However, there's no behavior requirement otherwise: for imports without `type: "json"` attribute, the host may still parse it as JSON if security is not an issue in this environment. In reality, non-browser runtimes such as Node and Deno align with browser semantics and enforce `type` for JSON modules.
```
